Added a folder and .md file for the gitignore concept (#5813)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/gitignore/gitignore.md

---
Title: 'gitignore' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

> Description: 'Learn how and why we should use a .gitignore file to make cleaner and more secure code changes!' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)

Reviewer: This description has to be the definition for `.gitignore`. We can write something like this :

```suggestion
Description: 'A `.gitignore` file is a plain text file that tells Git which files or directories to ignore in a repository, preventing them from being tracked or staged.'
```

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!

>   - 'Code Foundations'
>   - 'Computer Science'
>   - 'Data Science'
>   - 'Developer Tools'
>   - 'Information Technology'
>   - 'Web Design'
>   - 'Web Development'

Reviewer: We should keep only the most relevant subjects here - 

```suggestion
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Developer Tools'
```

Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Git'
  - 'GitHub'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first

>   - 'learn-git'

Reviewer: We can also add the following catalog content:

```suggestion
  - 'learn-git'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> When pushing your project to GitHub, there are often files you do not want to be shared with others. A **.gitignore** file is used to specify which files or folders you want Git to ignore when staging. Follow the steps below to include this file in your GitHub project, which can result in cleaner staging areas and prevent sensitive information from accidentally being pushed.

Reviewer: This should only be an explanation of what is `.gitignore`, avoid writing anything about the steps to follow etc. Also, try to make it similar to the description.

It can be rewritten as following:

```suggestion
A **.gitignore** file is used in Git to specify which files or directories version control should ignore. This file helps maintain cleaner repositories by preventing unnecessary or sensitive files, such as configuration files, logs, or system-generated files, from being tracked or committed.
```

> ## What is a `.gitignore` file?
> 
> What happens when our Git repository contains certain files we never want to commit to a shared or public codebase? We want to be careful that git add doesn’t accidentally move them to the staging area. That’s where a **.gitignore** file comes in. **.gitignore** is a plain text file that tells Git to intentionally ignore changes in certain files. This also ensures that no other contributor in the repository accidentally commits those files.

Reviewer: We can skip this section as this is already covered in the introduction part.

```suggestion
```

## Why use a `.gitignore` file?

> Each line in .gitignore corresponds to a file, directory, or pattern we would like to ignore when staging. Using a .gitignore file results in cleaner staging areas and prevent files containing sensitive information from being committed. Some of the files or folders we should ignore include:
> * Configuration files with API or secret keys such as **.env**
> * Compiled binary files or production directories such as **build** or **dist**
> * Log files
> * Dependencies downloaded from a package manager such as **node_modules**
> * System files such as **thumbs.db** on Windows or **.DS_Store** on macOS

Reviewer: This depends on the type of project that we are working on. Avoid writing it like this. Instead, we can write this section as follows:

```suggestion
- **Clean Staging Areas**: Excludes files that don’t need to be staged or committed.
- **Security**: Prevents accidental exposure of sensitive information like API keys or passwords.
- **Efficiency**: Avoids tracking bulky or frequently changing files, such as compiled binaries or dependencies.
```

## Creating a `.gitignore` file

> We can create a **.gitignore** file easily using a terminal editor like *nano* or *emacs*, or just using a File explorer. Don’t forget the `.` before the filename!

Reviewer: We only use bold to emphasise when using the term for the first time. The sentence can be rewritten for better readability and understanding as follows:

```suggestion
We can easily create a `.gitignore` file using a terminal editor like Nano or Emacs or just File Explorer.
```

> **.gitignore** is usually placed in the root directory of the repository. The filenames inside a **.gitignore** file can be written relative to the location of the **.gitignore** file. For example, we could add the line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.gitignore` is usually placed in the root directory of the repository. The filenames inside a `.gitignore` file can be written relative to the location of the `.gitignore` file. 

For example, to ignore the file `main.js` under the `src/` directory, we can write as follows:
```

```
src/main.js

```

> to ignore the file **main.js** under the **src/** directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![alt text](https://static-assets.codecademy.com/Courses/learn-git-github/gitignore/create-gitignore.png "A screenshot of a Linux terminal showing the creation of a .gitignore file using the command "touch .gitignore". Next, the commands "ls" and "ls -a" are used to show that since .gitignore is a hidden file, the "-a" flag is necessary")

Reviewer: The markdown syntax for adding an image is wrong here -

```suggestion
![A screenshot of a Linux terminal showing the creation of a .gitignore file using the command `touch .gitignore`. Next, the commands `ls` and `ls -a` are used to show that since `.gitignore` is a hidden file, the `-a` flag is necessary.](https://static-assets.codecademy.com/Courses/learn-git-github/gitignore/create-gitignore.png)
```

> **Note:** since **.gitignore** is a hidden file, we will need to add the `-a` flag to `ls` to see it.

Reviewer: The formatting is wrong here. It should be as follows:

```suggestion
> **Note**: Since `.gitignore` is a hidden file, we must add the `-a` flag to `ls` to see it.
```

## Ignore a directory with .gitignore

> Sometimes we want to ignore entire directories or specify certain files in a directory. Common directories to leave out of a Git repository are **node_modules** or **logs** folder. We can ignore an entire directory by simply adding its name to **.gitignore**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, we want to ignore entire directories or specify certain files in a directory. Common directories to leave out of a Git repository are `node_modules` or `logs` folders. We can ignore an entire directory by simply adding its name to `.gitignore`:
```

```
node_modules/
```

> This will ignore the **node_modules** directory, and all subdirectories and files inside them. The forward slash `/` specifies that we are ignoring the directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will ignore the `node_modules` directory, and all subdirectories and files inside them. The forward slash `/` specifies that we are ignoring the directory.
```

## `.gitignore` Patterns

We can take advantage of patterns to match multiple filenames. These help us handle special cases such as ignoring specific file types or ignoring all but one file inside a directory. Some examples of things that make up patterns are:

* Wildcard * to match 0 or more characters except for /. For example, adding `*.html` to **.gitignore** would ignore all files ending with the `.html` extension. `example*` would match any file starting with example such as `example.txt` or `exampleHtmlFile.html`.
* Negation `!` as a prefix to negate any file that would otherwise be ignored. For example,
```
index*
!public/index.css
```
will ignore all files starting with *index* except for *src/index.css*. But, we cannot negate a file inside an ignored directory.

* Square brackets `[]` can be used to match a single character from a set of characters or a range of characters. Note that the range can be alphabetical: `[a-z]` or `[A-Z]`, numeric `[0-9]`, or a set of characters. If we added `index.[a-i]*` with both the square bracket and wildcard to **.gitignore**, we would ignore *index.css* and *index.html* but not *index.js*, since “j” is outside of the `[a-i]` range.

> * Double asterisk `**` is used to match 0 or more directories. If we had a temp folder inside all of the folders in the root directory and we only wanted to match files with the `.log` extension, we could use the pattern `**/temp/*.log`.

Reviewer: Try to separate the explanation and usage details of different patterns.

Add a list of patterns possible:

```
- `*` matches zero or more characters.
- `**` matches files in all subdirectories.
- `!` negates an ignore rule.
- `/` specifies a directory.
```

And then you can show usage in different examples like this - 

```
# Ignore all `.txt` files
*.txt

# Ignore all files in the `temp` directory
temp/**

# Do not ignore `important.txt` inside `temp`
!temp/important.txt
```

I suggest not to mix both at the same place, as it will make the text long, difficult to follow and understand.

> ## GitHub Provided Templates

Reviewer: We can skip the heading and add the paragraph as an ending note.

```suggestion
```

> When we create a new repository on GitHub, we have the option to add a .gitignore file from a list of templates. These templates are pulled from [GitHub’s gitignore repository](https://github.com/github/gitignore). For example, below is the template for Java projects.

Reviewer: Rewrite this for better understanding:

```suggestion
GitHub provides predefined `.gitignore` templates for different languages and frameworks, available at [GitHub’s gitignore repository](https://github.com/github/gitignore).
```

```
# Compiled class file
*.class

# Log file
*.log

# BlueJ files
*.ctxt

# Mobile Tools for Java (J2ME)
.mtj.tmp/

# Package Files #
*.jar
*.war
*.nar
*.ear
*.zip
*.tar.gz
*.rar

> ```

Reviewer: This example can be skipped as we have already added the link where learners can find the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
